content/en/advanced-drone-assembly/vio-mounting/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Zed Mini Camera Mounting"
weight: 5
---

The ZED Mini will be mounted to the front of your AVR drone and connected with a USB-C
cable. This camera is instrumental in mapping out
the environment in real-time and providing location updates to the VMC.
This enables your AVR to "see" and maintain it's current position without GPS!

You should have printed the
[Zed Mini mount from the 3D Printing section]({{< relref "../../3d-printing/mounts" >}})
of this documentation. The ZED Mini should clip into your 3D printed mount securely.

![Hardware for mounting ZED Mini](zed_mini_mounting_1.jpg)

Secure the camera mount to the bottom accessory plate with two M3 8mm screws and lock nuts.

![ZED Mini 3D printed camera mount](zed_mini_mounting_2.jpg)

You will notice that the mount points 45 degrees downward. This aids in tracking both in front and beneath the AVR drone.

![45 degree downward tilt](zed_mini_mounting_3.jpg)

Snap the ZED Mini into the mount. Make sure that the ridges in the mount snap into the recessed areas on the top and bottom of the camera. You should not be able to slide the camera left and right when properly secured.

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
You will notice there is a bit of play when you wiggle the camera back and forth. This can cause problems for ZED Mini's internal sensors. We will further secure the camera with set screws from the servo hardware.
{{% /alert %}}

![ZED Mini snapped into mount](zed_mini_mounting_4.jpg)

Locate the servo hardware and pull out two screws as shown in the photo below.

![Set screws for securing ZED Mini into the mount](zed_mini_mounting_5.jpg)

Use a Phillips head screwdriver to thread both screws into the 3D printed mount.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
The set screws will not go all the way in. Screw them until you make contact with the threaded hole in the ZED Mini. At this point you will feel a bit of resistance and can stop.
{{% /alert %}}

Wiggle the camera left and right to see if there is any play. If so, turn the set screws half a rotation. Repeat the process until the camera if fully secured.

![Set screws hold ZED Mini in place](zed_mini_mounting_6.jpg)

Finally, you can plug the USB cable into the side of the Zed Mini
and into one of the ports on the VMC.

The Zed Mini has a unique USB-C cable so unfortunately it is going to be a little longer
than you need. We suggest rolling the cable up and tucking it between the bottom and
bottom-mid plate for cleanliness.

![ZED Mini cable rolled out and zip-tied to standoffs](zed_mini_mounting_8.jpg)

![ZED Mini plugged into  one of the VMC's USB ports](zed_mini_mounting_7.jpg)

# TODO: Review the following callouts with Noel

{{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
If you feel that the Zed Mini is not secure in the 3D printed mount we recommend
adding a zip tie around the center. This will keep the Zed Mini from coming free.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
As you're going through the build process make note of any cables that may
obstruct the drone's propellers. The photos provided throughout this documentation
show how we've mounted things and provide an sufficient amount of clearance.
{{% /alert %}}

Commit message:

Updating screws for ZED Mini mounting

content/en/advanced-drone-assembly/vio-mounting/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Zed Mini Camera Mounting"
weight: 5
---

The ZED Mini will be mounted to the front of your AVR drone and connected with a USB-C
cable. This camera is instrumental in mapping out
the environment in real-time and providing location updates to the VMC.
This enables your AVR to "see" and maintain it's current position without GPS!

You should have printed the
[Zed Mini mount from the 3D Printing section]({{< relref "../../3d-printing/mounts" >}})
of this documentation. The ZED Mini should clip into your 3D printed mount securely.

![Hardware for mounting ZED Mini](zed_mini_mounting_1.jpg)

Secure the camera mount to the bottom accessory plate with two M3 8mm screws and lock nuts.

![ZED Mini 3D printed camera mount](zed_mini_mounting_2.jpg)

You will notice that the mount points 45 degrees downward. This aids in tracking both in front and beneath the AVR drone.

![45 degree downward tilt](zed_mini_mounting_3.jpg)

Snap the ZED Mini into the mount. Make sure that the ridges in the mount snap into the recessed areas on the top and bottom of the camera. You should not be able to slide the camera left and right when properly secured.

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
You will notice there is a bit of play when you wiggle the camera back and forth. This can cause problems for ZED Mini's internal sensors. We will further secure the camera with set screws from the servo hardware.
{{% /alert %}}

![ZED Mini snapped into mount](zed_mini_mounting_4.jpg)

Locate the large ziploc bag inside the **AVR Drone Peripherals** box. Inside this bag there are several screws floating around. You will need two of them that look like the ones in the photo below.

![Set screws for securing ZED Mini into the mount](zed_mini_mounting_5.jpg)

Use a Phillips head screwdriver to thread both screws into the 3D printed mount.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
The set screws will not go all the way in. Screw them until you make contact with the threaded hole in the ZED Mini. At this point you will feel a bit of resistance and can stop.
{{% /alert %}}

Wiggle the camera left and right to see if there is any play. If so, turn the set screws half a rotation. Repeat the process until the camera is fully secured.

![Set screws hold ZED Mini in place](zed_mini_mounting_6.jpg)

Finally, you can plug the USB cable into the side of the Zed Mini
and into one of the ports on the VMC.

The Zed Mini has a unique USB-C cable so unfortunately it is going to be a little longer
than you need. We suggest rolling the cable up and tucking it between the bottom and
bottom-mid plate for cleanliness.

![ZED Mini cable rolled out and zip-tied to standoffs](zed_mini_mounting_8.jpg)

![ZED Mini plugged into  one of the VMC's USB ports](zed_mini_mounting_7.jpg)

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
As you're going through the build process make note of any cables that may
obstruct the drone's propellers. The photos provided throughout this documentation
show how we've mounted things and provide a sufficient amount of clearance.
{{% /alert %}}
