content/en/flight-controller-setup-and-calibration/px4-firmware/_index.md, before:

---
title: "PX4 Firmware"
weight: 1
description: "This section will cover downloading the PX4 firmware and uploading with QGC"
---

## Uploading PX4 firmware using QGC

[PX4](https://px4.io/) is firmware that we will be running
on the AVR drone. It is an open-source flight stack containing all the
software necessary to get your drone into the air.

To facilitate some of the extra functionality required for our drone
to fly in stabilized flight mode without a GPS, you will need a custom version of PX4
Bell engineers have developed. Go to the latest
[AVR software release](https://github.com/bellflight/AVR-2022/releases/tag/stable)
and download the `px4_fmu-v6c_default.<px4 version>.<hash>.px4` file.

In the Firmware screen in QGroundControl you can upload a new version of PX4.
To access the firmware screen make sure to click on the Q logo in the
top left of the screen and then click on **Vehicle Setup > Firmware**.
You will see the following screen.

![Firmware upload screen in QGC](qgc_firmware_default.png)

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
Make your FC is **NOT** plugged in when accessing the firmware setup screen.
First access the firmware screen and **THEN** plug in your FC.
It will recognize the connection and initiate the process.
{{% /alert %}}

QGC will ask you to plug in your FC using a USB cable.
A popup will appear that asks you which firmware you want to use.
select "Advanced Settings", then "Custom firmware file..."

![Loading PX4 Pro Stable Release onto FC](image3.png)

Then click "Ok" and select the firmware file you downloaded.
Now, you will see a progress bar. This process should take no more than 2-3 minutes.

![](image4.png)

After the PX4 firmware is successfully loaded you will be presented with
the default **Vehicle Setup** screen. It is necessary to go through the
following steps to ensure a reliable and stable first flight.

![QGC Vehicle Setup screen right after PX4 firmware load](qgc_vehicle_setup.png)

Commit message:

Docs release/9 1 (#222)
- Major rework of VMC
- Moved a lot of flashing to the troubleshooting section for clarity
- Release software
- Updated images
- Onshape CAD storage hosting
- Peripherals section addition
- rename flight tests to checkpoints
- updated gui



* Wifi name change

* Inserting micro SD card into VMC

* Updated QGC link to daily

* Removing typo and removing

* Link to forum in new tab/window

* vernacular changes

* GUI Updates

* Documenting new motor install (#195)

* Docs feature/jetsons images (#199)

* updated esc wording

* Drone Cad onshape addition

* Added 2 new folders and reordered pages

* Review with Dennis

content/en/flight-controller-setup-and-calibration/px4-firmware/_index.md, after:

---
title: "PX4 Firmware"
weight: 1
---

## Uploading PX4 firmware using QGC

[PX4](https://px4.io/) is firmware that we will be running
on the AVR drone. It is an open-source flight stack containing all the
software necessary to get your drone into the air.

To facilitate some of the extra functionality required for our drone
to fly in stabilized flight mode without a GPS, you will need a custom version of PX4
Bell engineers have developed. Go to the latest
[AVR software release](https://github.com/bellflight/AVR-2022/releases/tag/stable)
and download the `px4_fmu-v6c_default.<px4 version>.<hash>.px4` file.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
Be sure you grab the correct **6c** firmware, there will also be a 6x build,
`px4_fmu-v6x_default`, but that is for a different flight controller
and is **NOT** to be used.
{{% /alert %}}

In the Firmware screen in QGroundControl you can upload a new version of PX4.
To access the firmware screen make sure to click on the Q logo in the
top left of the screen and then click on **Vehicle Setup > Firmware**.
You will see the following screen.

![Firmware upload screen in QGC](qgc_firmware_default.png)

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
Make your FC is **NOT** plugged in when accessing the firmware setup screen.
First access the firmware screen and **THEN** plug in your FC.
It will recognize the connection and initiate the process.
{{% /alert %}}

QGC will ask you to plug in your FC using a USB cable.
A popup will appear that asks you which firmware you want to use.
select "Advanced Settings", then "Custom firmware file..."

![Loading PX4 Pro Stable Release onto FC](image3.png)

Then click "Ok" and select the firmware file you downloaded.
Now, you will see a progress bar. This process should take no more than 2-3 minutes.

![](image4.png)

After the PX4 firmware is successfully loaded you will be presented with
the default **Vehicle Setup** screen. It is necessary to go through the
following steps to ensure a reliable and stable first flight.

![QGC Vehicle Setup screen right after PX4 firmware load](qgc_vehicle_setup.png)
